In this lesson, we'll be talking about
the different types of I/O, input and
output, and how to redirect that I/O.
There are three default types of input and
output.
They are standard input,
standard output, and standard error.
By default, standard input comes from
the keyboard, and standard output and
standard error are displayed
to the screen.
Each one of these I/O types
is given a file descriptor.
File descriptors are just numbers
that represent open files.
For us humans, it's easier to reference
files by name, but it's easier for
computers to reference them by number.
You might be thinking,
my keyboard isn't a file nor is my screen.
On one level, that's true, but
on another level, it's not.
Linux represents practically
everything as a file.
This abstraction allows you to do some
powerful things like take the standard
output of one command that would
normally be displayed to your screen and
use it as the input to another command,
or even redirect that output to a file.
Use the greater than sign
to redirect output and
the less than sign to redirect input.
The greater than sign redirects
output from a command to a file,
while the less than sign redirects
input from a file to a command.
The explicit way of using redirection
is to provide a file descriptor number.
However, if one is omitted, then the file
descriptor zero is assumed for input, and
one for output redirection.
When you use two greater than signs, the
redirected output will append to the file.
Normally, with redirection,
a file follows the redirection operator.
If you want to use a file
descriptor instead of a file name,
use the ampersand symbol.
So, instead of redirecting standard error
to a file would two greater than out.err,
for instance,
you could redirect it to standard output
with two greater than ampersand one.
This effectively combines standard
input and standard output.
If you want to ignore output, you can send
it to the null device which is dev/null.
The null device is a special file that
throws away whatever is fed to it.
You may hear people refer
to this as a bit bucket.
If you don't wanna see errors on your
screen and you don't wanna save them to
a file, you can redirect them
to dev/null for instance.
Let's look at the output
of the ls-l command.
Let's redirect that
standard output to a file.
Use the greater than symbol and
follow it with a file name.
So, use files.txt.
So, if we look at
the contents of files.txt,
we'll see that it has the output of ls-l.
You can append to an existing file
with two greater than symbols.
So, let's take the standard output
of ls and append it to files.txt.
We can see that this is
the ls-l output from earlier,
and then at the bottom
is just the ls output.
Input redirection works like this.
Let's take files.txt and
redirect the contents into sort.
And you see that sort
was run on the command.
This is really equivalent
to sort files.txt, but
this is another way to do it.
File descriptor one is assumed for
output redirection, and
file descriptor two is assumed for
input redirection.
So, this is the same ls-l >
files.txt is the same as ls-l 1,
the file descriptor number, to files.txt.
However, make sure you don't leave
a space if you're gonna use this.
Input and
output redirection can be combined, so
lets use files.txt as the input for
sort command, and
let's redirect that output
to sorted_files.txt.
And you can see that that worked.
When a program encounters an error,
it reports its findings on standard error.
File descriptor one is for standard
output while two is for standard error.
File descriptor one is the default
descriptor for output redirection.
So, this can mean that not all
of the output generated by
a program is captured by default.
Let's look at this example.
You can see that this ls command found
files.text, but it also had an error.
The file not here was not there.
Let's run the same command again.
So, in this situation,
file descriptor one,
standard out was redirected
to the file called out.
Standard error was not redirected so
it was displayed to our screen.
You can see that standard
out did go to out.
Let's redirect standard
error into out.err.
So, standard output came to our screen,
standard error went to this file.
This can actually be handy because you
can send standard output one place,
and standard error to another,
so let's do that.
That's standard out, and
this is standard error.
And you could use that for
an error log, for instance.
You can also combine standard output and
standard error.
Let's do that.
Redirect output to out.both.
Take standard error and
append it to standard input.
So, both the error message,
no such file or directory,
and the standard output of
files.txt ended up in out.both.
Let's use the null device.
If you wanna ignore errors,
you can send the errors to dev/null,
Or send standard output to dev/null.
And then, now, you just get the error
message or you can do both.
Redirect output to dev/null,
append standard error to standard output.
This lesson covered standard input,
standard output, and standard error.
The default file descriptor for
standard input is zero, while standard
out is one and standard error is two.
You can redirect input and output with
greater than and less than symbols.
If you want to use redirection in
conjunction with file descriptors,
use an ampersand.
You can redirect output to dev/null to
prevent output from being displayed to
your screen or written to a file.